- [Instructor] Before we get started on practicing
some test-driven development habits,
I want to take a moment to first share with you
a few of my favorite arguments
for why test-driven development really matters.
The actual list of reasons could easily be a long one,
so I'm going to condense this to just my favorites
and hopefully the most important ones.
It's one of the best ways to get
really quick design validation.
When you think about it as a developer,
when you write code for anything,
the first thing you do in your head
is come up with a design.
You may or may not actually
formally document that design on paper,
but it is still true that design
happens before development usually.
And you need to test your design
before it's too settled
because an implemented bad design choice
tends to be pretty expensive to change later
in the development cycle.
By practicing TDD,
you get the quick design feedback you need
and the ability to fix a small problem
before it becomes a big one.
Good test coverage is what I like to call
executable documentation,
which is the best documentation you can have
on a software application.
Tests tend to also be a teams most trustworthy documentation
because it gives you facts
not just opinions of what other teammates believe
or what other forms of documentation
might be saying about the system.
Given how well tests can double as documentation,
they're also a good place to begin documenting
a feature's acceptance criteria.
When starting out writing automated test code
for the first time,
the low-hanging fruit test cases are the ones
where you are verifying that
all the acceptance criteria have been met
for a feature.
Automated tests, specifically unit tests
are also very useful in helping to verify the parts
before the whole.
When you consider that many teams are often developing
different aspects of a feature simultaneously,
does a great thing to be able to
verify each part independently
before it is integrated with other parts
that make up the whole feature.
Another good reason is that
it's good for change management.
So think, one cannot change what one doesn't understand.
Right?
Well this saying holds true for writing code.
A good way to understand code before you change it
is to make sure there's test coverage
around that code.
Reading and running tests,
especially for code you didn't write,
will help you with understanding,
and the better you understand it,
the better position you'll be
to start making safe changes.
And along those same lines,
TDD is a useful tactic to employ
for troubleshooting defects.
Writing tests should become a habit
for every troubleshooting effort.
The tests you write can serve as
a pretty useful historical artifact.
They can help out when a defect
or a similar defect reoccurs.
Having tests in place on a team can also help
with onboarding and training new developers.
A new developer can read and hopefully contribute to
the writing of tests for features,
and they can do no harm assuming those tests
are written in a safe way.
Consider how much writing tests can be used
for just in time training for a new developer.
This allows the new developer to learn
what the system actually does
by taking advantage of executable documentation
and contributing to it as well.
The final reason is pretty simple.
Practicing, and I mean truly practicing
and able to prove test-driven development
is definitely a next-level skill set.
It's a good thing to have on your resume
to help you stand out in a crowd
of similar job candidates
that didn't take the time to call this out on a resume
or didn't even take the time to personally adopt
test-driven habits to begin with.
Often times, it's a team mandate
or an important part of team culture
to practice test-driven development.
You want to be seen as a team fit
by having this on your resume.
And when you do, you're signaling
a certain amount of discipline and leadership
to potential hiring managers and future teammates.
If you want to start leveling up
your job opportunities,
and by extension possibly your compensation,
you may want to start with developing
some test-driven development mastery.
And speaking of mastery,
it definitely takes a lot of practice
to reach that next level.
So, let's get started on just that.
Time for some hands-on practice.